Don’t Give The Enemy A Seat At Your Table
#5 You Are Surrounded
Intro: There’s funny video went viral on social media recently: toddler standing inside laundry basket, screaming & crying b/c thinks he’s stuck. Parents are videoing, trying not to laugh while toddler cries - finally they tell him: “buddy, just get out of the basket” - snaps the toddler out of it, stops crying and then steps out of the basket. 
- Sometimes, we can feel like this toddler: feel spiritually surrounded - “I’m trapped”, “no way out”, start to fear
- TRUTH: we are only seeing part of the picture - we’re not surrounded by the enemy, we’re surrounded by God
2 Kings 6:15-17 And when the servant of the man of God arose early and went out, there was an army, surrounding the city with horses and chariots. And his servant said to him, “Alas, my master! What shall we do?” 16 So he answered, “Do not fear, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them.” 17 And Elisha prayed, and said, “LORD, I pray, open his eyes that he may see.” Then the LORD opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw. And behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha.


1. Feeling Surrounded
   a) It’s easy to feel totally surrounded by enemy
      i) Talked a little on Wednesday about feeling like you’re in a pressure cooker
         1) Like every way you turn, enemy attacks some area of life: finances / family / health / mind
         2) TXT, Elisha’s servant felt completely surrounded:
VS 15 And when the servant of the man of God arose early and went out, there was an army, surrounding the city with horses and chariots. And his servant said to him, “Alas, my master! What shall we do?” 
            a) Inevitably, this is question we begin to ask too, isn’t it? What am I gonna do? “I’m surrounded”
Q: What are some ways life makes us feel surrounded
      ii) Enemy wants you to feel totally surrounded
Story: Sun Tzu wrote book, The Art of War. He wrote that one of the most effective strategies in warfare is psychological intimidation. In one passage he explains that a skilled commander will often make his army appear larger and more powerful than it really is. Armies would do things like: Light extra campfires at night so the enemy thought there were thousands more soldiers. Have soldiers march in circles to raise huge clouds of dust so it looked like reinforcements were arriving. Beat drums and horns loudly to make their presence seem overwhelming. The goal wasn’t always to destroy the enemy in battle. The goal was to convince the enemy they were already surrounded, so there’s no hope.
         1) Devil knows if he can make you feel surrounded, you’ll live in fear / think there’s no hope
1 Samuel 17:10-11 “And the Philistine said, ‘I defy the armies of Israel this day…’ When Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly afraid.”
            a) Goliath, one man, caused so much fear in COI, that they literally stopped fighting
               i) With enough manpower, Goliath meant nothing - he wasn’t stronger than entire army of Israel…
         2) Fear causes us to stop trusting God
   b) When we stop trusting God, we stop resisting
      i) In Art of War, idea was to get enemy to stop fighting before fight even began
         1) This exactly what devil wants you to do - wants you to stop fighting before the fight has even begun
         2) TRUTH: you and I have a free will - this means devil cannot make us do anything
            a) Therefore, his greatest success, is getting you to give up - getting you decide to stop following Jesus
1 Peter 5:8-9 “Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil walks about like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Resist him, steadfast in the faith.”
         3) Why does say like a lion? Most researchers think Lion’s Roar is designed to paralyze their prey in fear
            a) Also: male lions actually don’t do hunting - they’re just big, scary, intimidators
      ii) This is what the devil is - wants you to think he has some power - but really, it’s empty - just an intimidator
C.S. Lewis: “The devil’s strategy is to make us either think he is insignificant or to believe that he is too powerful.”
Charles Spurgeon: “Satan is both a liar and a coward.”


2. God Surrounds The Enemy
   a) TXT shows us perfect example of this TRUTH: God surrounds Enemy
VS 16-17 So he answered, “Do not fear, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them.” 17 And Elisha prayed, and said, “LORD, I pray, open his eyes that he may see.” Then the LORD opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw. And behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha.
      i) We look at life & think enemy surrounds us - but what don’t often see is so does God
         1) In fact, Bible tells us God physically surrounds us at all times
Jeremiah 23:23-24 “Am I a God near at hand,” says the LORD, “And not a God afar off? Can anyone hide himself in secret places, So I shall not see him?” says the LORD; “Do I not fill heaven and earth?” says the LORD.
         2) But our enemy is not omnipresent - he does not possess same power as God
Enemy wants you to think he’s there even when he’s not, but when he’s gone, you know who’s still there? God
Q: Who can tell me of a time you felt God’s presence, and weren’t at church? Maybe looking at nature, children, etc…
   b) TRUTH: As much as enemy wants you to feel surrounded, he can never surround you like God does
Story: In 1962, astronaut John Glenn became the first American to orbit the Earth. As he circled the planet and looked out the window of the spacecraft, he saw the entire earth suspended in the darkness of space. Later he said something that became famous: “To look out at this kind of creation and not believe in God is to me impossible.”
      i) Want to know what devil can’t do? Create the earth / bring universe into existence
         1) And while enemy trying to make us feel surrounded, you know what’s surrounding him? God
Isaiah 40:26 “Lift up your eyes on high, And see who has created these things, Who brings out their host by number; He calls them all by name, By the greatness of His might And the strength of His power; Not one is missing.”


3. Peace in Perspective
   a) When we remind ourselves that God surrounds our enemy, this brings peace
      i) We see this in Paul and Silas when they’re in prison:
Acts 16:22-25 “The crowd joined in the attack against Paul and Silas… they were severely flogged and thrown into prison… About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God…”
        1) How could they have such peace, when seems like they’re surrounded by the enemy?
        2) Because they had perspective: they can’t do anything to me - even if they were killed, they’d be in heaven
           a) Why does it matter so much? We’ve already been saved from an eternity of suffering by blood Jesus
   b) But they also understood the power of God
      i) That same night, God literally broke the chains and freed them from jail supernaturally
         1) You know what’s crazy? We serve the same God they did - so we should have peace / faith like them
      ii) But don’t be hard on yourself: we’re not only people who struggled w/ perspective while being surrounded by God
         1) The disciples themselves did this: 
Mark 4:37-39 “A great windstorm arose… But He was in the stern, asleep… Then He arose and rebuked the wind, and said to the sea, ‘Peace, be still!’ And the wind ceased and there was a great calm.”
         2) All the disciples could see was they were surrounded by waves - surrounded by enemy
            a) But they forgot that they were also surrounded by the presence of Christ - literally w/ them in the boat
Closing Ill: There’s a story about a little boy flying on a plane during a terrible thunderstorm. The plane was shaking, lightning flashing, turbulence hitting hard. Passengers were gripping their seats, some even praying out loud. But one little boy in the middle row was completely calm. He was just sitting there coloring. A nervous passenger finally asked him, “Are you not afraid?” The boy smiled and said: “No. My dad is the pilot.”
- This is the perspective Paul had in prison / perspective Elisha had in when army surrounded the city
- And this is perspective God wants us to have - enemy may make you feel surrounded, but really, he’s surrounded