Pleasing God
#3 Pleasing God Through Our Lives
Intro: Last week started Sunday night sermon series called “Pleasing God”, and began w/ principle of pleasing God - Bible talks extensively about pleasing God - our series will focus on these scriptures so we clearly understand how to please God. Entire series centers around this main TXT:
1 Thess 4:1 As for other matters, brothers and sisters, we instructed you how to live in order to please God, as in fact you are living. Now we ask you and urge you in the Lord Jesus to do this more and more.


Opening Ill: In London, the soldiers who guard Buckingham Palace are famous for standing perfectly still. Tourists gather around them all day trying to make them laugh or move. People wave their hands, tell jokes, sometimes even make ridiculous faces trying to get a reaction. But those guards are trained not to respond. Why? Because they know exactly who they represent. They aren’t standing there for themselves. They are standing there for the Queen. Every movement, every step, every posture is meant to reflect honor to the one they serve. In fact, if one of those guards broke formation and started joking around with tourists, everyone would immediately think something was wrong. Why? Because their behavior reflects who they belong to.
- In the same way, our lives are meant to reflect the one we serve - today’s sermon entitled…


Colossians 1:9-12 For this reason, since the day we heard about you, we have not stopped praying for you. We continually ask God to fill you with the knowledge of his will through all the wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives, so that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and please him in every way: bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might so that you may have great endurance and patience, and giving joyful thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of his holy people in the kingdom of light.


1. Pleasing God
   a) Paul writing to ppl surrounded by / raised in - false religions
      i) Common theme of these religions - they were impersonal
         1) Their gods didn’t care about the ppl: apathetic / not caring
         2) Colossians in particular dealing with Gnosticism: gnosticism is all about knowledge
            a) In fact, they believed that salvation didn’t come through faith, but came through special secret knowledge
            b) Would teach that physical world is evil - only spiritual world not - taught Jesus never truly had physical body
               i) RESULT: it became very impersonal false interpretation of Christianity
   b) But true Christianity is a personal religion
      i) Based on a relationship w/ a personal God
Revelation 1:5 and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler over the kings of the earth. To Him who loved us and washed us from our sins in His own blood,
1 John 4:19 We love him, because he first loved us.
      ii) Christianity not just program / rules / an institution - it all centers on a person: Jesus Christ
2 Timothy 2:4 No one engaged in warfare entangles himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who enlisted him as a soldier. - & the person who enlisted us is Jesus Christ
Matthew 25:21 His lord said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant; you were faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.'
   c) SO: Because we serve a person, foundation of our entire lives should be pleasing Him
Story: A husband brings home flowers. Now that can mean two very different things. If he brings them home because he loves his wife and wants to make her smile, that is pleasing. But if he forgot their anniversary yesterday, slept on the couch, and now shows up with gas-station roses and a panicked look on his face — that is not pleasing. That is appeasing.
      i) Very different from appeasing which is most world religions - just trying to get god to not be angry w/ you
         1) We serve to please: which is beautiful b/c means “to make happy” - we strive to make our God happy
            a) And the great hope is that we can please God - not some impossible task, it’s real - back to TXT:
Colossians 1:10 so that you may live a life worthy of the Lord and please him in every way: bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God
      ii) IOW, we desire to live & act in such a way that makes someone else happy - not all about us
         1) Naturally, causes us to think: what is their desire for us? - what is in their best interest?
John 8:29 And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him.
      iii) And this moves far beyond simply what right/worng - legal/illegal; Is it pleasing to God? Am I pleasing to God?
         1) This is beautiful result of what we believe: Christianity is not about “following ten commandments”
            a) It’s actually: “How can I serve God to best of my ability?” “How can I make my Father happy?”
   d) A very important part of this is spiritual knowledge
Colossians 1:9 We continually ask God to fill you with the knowledge of his will through all the wisdom and understanding that the Spirit gives
      i) Knowledge of His Will: what does God intend to happen in my life - what has He planned for me?
Galatians 1:1 From Paul, an apostle. I was not chosen to be an apostle by human beings, nor was I sent from human beings. I was made an apostle through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised Jesus from the dead.
      ii) Wisdom: Knowledge of first principles - foundations of the way things work
      iii) Spiritual understanding: The ability to apply first principles to any given situation


2. A Worthy Walk
   a) We know AP writing to combat Gnosticism (Gnosis: knowledge - special knowledge)
      i) They taught that the body was evil and spirit was good: therefore, makes no difference what we do in this body
         1) Whole religion was special rituals/passwords that let you in on their beliefs - all abt knowledge
Story: You can own twenty cookbooks. You can underline recipes. Watch cooking shows. Argue online about cast iron skillets. But if you never actually cook dinner, all that knowledge is useless when everybody is hungry.
         2) Bible never treats knowledge as complete until it changes how you live
Story: sometimes, witness to someone - bottle booze in hand, “Oh yeah, I’m a Christian, I believe in Jesus” Yeah, so does the devil, but he’s not going to heaven is he?
      ii) But to the Jews: Knowledge & conduct were absolutely bound together
         1) IOW, a person didn’t know something unless they did it
James 2:17-18 In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. But someone will say, "You have faith; I have deeds." Show me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by what I do
            a) Says it’s dead: literally useless / worthless
Story: Imagine you play in a local basketball team, and you have Michael Jordan on your team…but he’s dead…
   b) TRUTH: Being a Christian is bound up in our actions - all about what we do
VS 10 that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing Him being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God
      i) He says walk: this is a visible action - something that can be observed in your life
      ii) So saying, our conduct is the proof of what’s inside us
Matthew 7:17-18 Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. 18 A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit.
         1) The idea of walking is also idea of a series of steps - not just one big event
            a) IOW: Pleasing God with our lives is about continually walking in righteousness
   c) Final thing TXT tells us is that our conduct should be worthy of the Lord
      i) Worthy is a measuring word: would use this word in ancient construction: weights on edges of beam, when level…
         1) So to walk worthy is to walk in a way “that balances the scales” - we are only saved by grace, 
            a) But now, only WORTHY way to live is a life fully in service to God 
Story: Intriguing phenomenon called “survivors guilt - people feeling guilty when someone else lost their life while saving their life - many people spend rest of lives as First Responders or in Military trying to save others lives because they feel like that’s the only worthy use of their time. Someone saved my life, now I must go and save others…
Phil.1:27 Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel;
         2) Question you should ask yourself: “Do I measure up to what I believe?” “Am I living my life according to what Jesus did for me?” - “Do I measure up?” - we know we will never measure up perfectly, but is that what you’re aiming for?
   d) ULTIMATELY: There should be outward evidence of our inward reality
Story: Sadly, had very close friend who ended up backsliding and destroying his life: his downfall was constantly overthinking salvation - constantly talk to me about things like: “Am I really saved?”, “What is salvation?” like did I lose it, or what’s the line?” - he was so focused on the internal feelings / thoughts of salvation, but his life never showed the true evidence: holiness, serving in church, fruitfulness, helping others, etc. - he didn’t have an outward evidence of the miracle that happens to us internally 
VS 10 that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing Him being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God
      i) This was AP means when he said being fruitful - not just saying “Do you bring ppl into kingdom?”, He’s really saying “Does your life show evidence of wanting to please God?”
      ii) HOW? AP tells us to “be fruitful in every good work” - this means doing things that are beneficial
         1) The focus of this is outward: Doing what is good for God / other people - like talked this AM
Luke 10:27 He answered: "'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind' ; and, 'Love your neighbor as yourself.'"
      iii) What are some practical ways our lives can be fruitful? (Blessing to God & others)


3. Worthy Attitudes
   a) It is possible to ruin our knowledge & works by our attitudes
Story: When I tell my kids to do something, they’ll do it, but often with a pouting face: “There! I did it!” - bad attitude
      i) So powerful part of this scripture, AP gives us some attitudes that please God
   b) Patience in adversity
Colossians 1:11 Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness;
Story: Admiral James Stockdale was shot down during the Vietnam War and spent over seven years as a prisoner of war, much of it in solitary confinement, and was repeatedly tortured. But he refused to break. Years later he said that one of the keys to surviving was this: he did not lose faith, and he did not stop holding his ground inwardly. That is exactly what Paul means by patience here. Not passive waiting. Not gritting your teeth for five minutes. But a spirit that says: “I am still standing. / I am still doing right. / And the devil still has not won.”
      i) Patience: remain under - bearing up; holding your position in battle - not giving up
         1) This is about doing what’s right no matter circumstance / problem / adversity / feel
Ephesians 6:13 That is why you need to put on God’s full armor. Then on the day of evil you will be able to stand strong. And when you have finished the whole fight, you will still be standing.
      ii) Imagine: at end of the day, can say: “Devil, you still lost - threw everything had at me, and still came up short”
   c) Patience with people
      i) Dealing w/ people can be very frustrating
         1) Become irritated at shortcomings / bitter at violations / despairing at others’ lack of change
      ii) Can cause us to take wrong actions
Numbers 20:10-11 And Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock; and he said to them, "Hear now, you rebels! Must we bring water for you out of this rock?" 11 Then Moses lifted his hand and struck the rock twice with his rod; and water came out abundantly, and the congregation and their animals drank.
      iii) TXT AP tells us be longsuffering - literally long-tempered: restraining ourselves from cussing someone out
Story: Abraham Lincoln had a habit when he was angry with someone: he would write them a scorching letter. He would say everything he wanted to say. Every frustration. Every sharp word. Then he would fold the letter up, put it away… and never send it. He got the emotion out without releasing the damage.
      iiii) Sometimes, most spiritual thing is not what you say - but what you don’t say
   d) Joyful thanks
VS 12 with joyfulness; 12 Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light:
Story: When Corrie ten Boom and her sister were imprisoned in Ravensbrück concentration camp, their barracks were infested with fleas. Corrie could not understand why her sister Betsie kept thanking God for everything — even the fleas. Later they discovered the guards stayed out of their barracks because of the fleas. That gave the women freedom to read the Bible, pray, and hold secret worship services. What looked like a curse became a shield.
      i) This is a choice of focus: deliberately choosing to focus on God
         1) God is worthy to be praised / thanked - even in bad situations
         2) God is able to change our situation - turn things around - even when don’t see it now
   e) ULTIMATELY: These attitudes require power that is beyond us
Colossians 1:11 Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness;
      i) God is able to supernaturally help those that want to please Him in their lives
Closing Ill: In 1997 a maintenance worker in a large office building in New York did something very small that most people never noticed. Part of his job was to walk the building at night and make sure emergency exit lights were working. Most nights it was routine: check the light, replace a bulb if needed, move on. But one night he noticed one exit sign wasn’t working properly. It would have been easy to ignore — the building was closing soon anyway. Instead he took the extra time to repair it. A few months later a fire broke out on that same floor. Smoke quickly filled the hallway and visibility dropped to almost nothing. People later said the only thing they could clearly see through the smoke was that glowing exit sign, which led them safely down the stairwell.
- That’s what Christianity is like: never something spectacular - always a thousand small decisions - choosing to do what’s right no matter what - and ULTIMATELY, living like this will please God