PLEASING GOD #4 “Pleasing God Through Purity”                                                                  1 Thess 4:1-8


Intro: The Bible speaks clearly about pleasing God
                a. Our study will focus on these scriptures so we clearly understand how to please God


I. THE PURPOSE OF PURITY
A. Moral purity is absolutely contrary to the spirit of our age - society
        1. True when this scripture was written:
                 a. Greece: We keep prostitutes for pleasure; we keep mistresses for the day to day needs of the body; we keep wives for the begetting of children & the home.
                 b. Almost all Roman Emperors/Caesars were homosexuals
        2. No shame at all: In fact you would be viewed as strange if you were not promiscuous
B. This is true in our society:
        1. “The most important event in human history is contraception”
                a. Allowed the sexual revolution: Immorality without consequences
        2. (US) 3 major TV networks: prime afternoon/evening hrs. - broadcast over 65,000 sexual references per year
                a. Average American viewer sees over 14,000 references/depictions of sex per year
        3. Newspaper: Would you go out w/a man who had a moral opinion about sex, who wanted to have a commitment from both partners b4 having sex? One girl - “For how long? I would – but only for 6 weeks - after that I’d be afraid there was something wrong with me.”
C. Yet here is God’s will/plan/blueprint for our lives
        1.1 Thess 4:3  For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication:
       2. Sex is good - inside the moral boundaries of marriage
               a. 1 Thess 4:5  Not in the lust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not God: NIV: not in passionate lust like the heathen, who do not know God;
                    1. Without object, aim or end: “passion of lust” like animals – a physical urge is the only factor
         3. 1 Thess 4:7  For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness.
               a. Called to holiness - our job/vocation: Holiness is our life-long job
               b. Q: what is holiness?  Idea of being set apart - purity
                     1. Different: set apart - not same as others
                     2. Ready for sacred/God’s uses
D. Our scripture says the motivation for purity is pleasing God
         1. 1 Thess 4:1 Finally, brothers, we instructed you how to live in order to please God, as in fact you are living. Now we ask you and urge you in the Lord Jesus to do this more and more.
               a. Q: Why does purity please God?
                     1. You are putting God 1st – above the spirit of the age/our own instincts
                     2. You are honoring/valuing His plan – marriage
                     3. You are honoring/valuing God’s plans for your life


II. THE POWER OF PURITY
A. Immorality effects the Spirit of God in the church
        1. 1 Thess 4:4 that each of you should know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor,
              a. Vessel: Predominantly seen in the Bible - a picture of the tools of the temple
              b. The temple was the dwelling place of God - where man met with God
        2. The vessels enabled work of God to be accomplished
                a. 1 Ki 8:4  And they brought up the ark of the LORD, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle, even those did the priests and the Levites bring up.
        3. Q: what are the new testament vessels?  Our bodies.
                a. 1 Cor 6:19  Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, who is in you, whom you have received from God? You are not your own;you were bought at a price. Therefore honor God with your body.
        4. Moral impurity affects the Spirit of God!
               a. An unclean Christian or unclean church is a powerless Christian or powerless church
                       1. Gen 38:16  Not realizing that she was his daughter-in-law, he went over to her by the roadside and said, "Come now, let me sleep with you." "And what will you give me to sleep with you?" she asked. "I'll send you a young goat from my flock," he said. "Will you give me something as a pledge until you send it?" she asked. He said, "What pledge should I give you?" "Your seal and its cord, and the staff in your hand," she answered. So he gave them to her and slept with her, and she became pregnant by him.
                                 a. He lost/surrendered something: his dominion/authority (staff/ring)
               b. Sad when God’s vessels are used for the Devil’s purposes!
                        1. 2 Ki 14:14  And he took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasures of the king's house, and hostages, and returned to Samaria.
         5. 1 Thess 4:7 For God did not call us to uncleanness, but in holiness.
               a. Uncleanness: pollution/filth - linked to demonic
               a. Result in O.T. was disqualifying for service – the spirit of God was hindered
        6. So the aim of purity is to preserve the spirit of God in effectiveness
B. Immorality & uncleanness involves theft:
        1. 1 Th 4:6  That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter: because that the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified.
              a. Daters: rob something from your relationship
              b. Pornography/fantasy: You are robbing your partner of effort/energy
              c. Adultery: Robbing husband/wife/children  d. Church: Rob others of the presence of God
C. The heart that allows lust to dominate is a despising heart
        1. 1 Th 4:8  He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but God, who hath also given unto us his holy Spirit.
              a. Despise: to set aside, to make small
       2. Involves an attitude that treats immorality lightly - no big deal
                a. Heb 12:16 lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one morsel of food sold his birthright.


III. PRACTICAL PURITY
A. The key to purity is a heart attitude of honoring God
         1. 1 Thess 4:4  That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour;
              a. Honour: value, weight, respect
                    1. Honor God: Respect Him    
                    2. Honor your spouse/honor your church: Value them   
                    3. Honor your potential: Your ability to be used – to bring the spirit of God to others
         2. Gen 39:9 There is no one greater in this house than I, nor has he kept back anything from me but you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?"
B. Practical steps to purity
         1. Matthew 18:8-9  Wherefore if thy hand or thy foot offend thee, cut them off, and cast them from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life halt or maimed, rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into everlasting fire. 9 And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire.
                a. Don’t go where you will be tempted, block access to what defiles, don’t do what defiles
        2. Really a decision to take control over body: rule it -not be ruled!
                 a. 1 Cor 9:27  But I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection: lest that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway.
                 b. Job 31:1  "I made a covenant with my eyes not to look lustfully at a girl.
C. Our walk w/God gives us the spiritual strength to be pure
        1. It is natural - an instinct to lust & be immoral
               a. It takes supernatural power to do other that our flesh wants
                      1. Prayer: Mat 26:41  Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.
                   2. Word of God: The word will keep you from sin; or sin will keep you from the word
                            a. Psa 119:9  How can a young man keep his way pure? By living according to your word.
                            b. Psa 119:11  Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee.
                            c. John 17:17  Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth.