PLEASING GOD #3 


“Pleasing God Through Our Lives”                              


1 Thess 4:1
4 Furthermore then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and to please God, so ye would abound more and more
          
Col 1:9-12
9 For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding; .. 10 That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God; .. 11 Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness; .. 12 Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light:


Intro: The Bible speaks clearly about pleasing God
                a. Our study will focus on these scriptures so we clearly understand how to please God


I. PLEASING GOD


A. Paul was writing to a people surrounded by – raised in false religions
        1. Common theme of these religions – they were impersonal
               a. The gods didn’t care about people: Apathetic – not caring
               b. Colossians dealing with Gnosticism – all about knowledge


B. But Christianity is a personal religion
        1. It is based on a relationship with a personal God
                a. Revelation 1:5 and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler over the kings of the earth. To Him who loved us and washed us from our sins in His own blood,
                b. 1 John 4:19 We love him, because he first loved us.
        2. Not just a program/rules/an institution – a person
                a. 2 Timothy 2:4 No one engaged in warfare entangles himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who enlisted him as a soldier.
                 b. Matthew 25:21 His lord said to him, 'Well done, good and faithful servant; you were faithful over a few things, I will make you ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.'


C. So the foundation of our entire lives should be pleasing God
         1. Colossians 1:10 That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God;
               a. Pleasing: Beautiful – to make happy
        2. We desire to live & act in such a way that makes someone else happy
               a. What is their desire for us - what in their best interest?
                        1. John 8:29 And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him.
        3. This moves far beyond right/wrong - legal/illegal; Is it pleasing to God? Am I pleasing God?


D. A very important part of this is spiritual knowledge
         1. Colossians 1:9 For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding;
               a. Knowledge of His will: What does God intend to happen in my life – what has He planned for me?
                       1. Galatians 1:1 From Paul, an apostle. I was not chosen to be an apostle by human beings, nor was I sent from human beings. I was made an apostle through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised Jesus from the dead.
               b. Wisdom: Knowledge of first principles – foundations of the way things work
               c.  Spiritual understanding: The ability to apply first principles to any given situation


II. A WORTHY WALK


A. Paul writing to combat Gnosticism (Gnosis: knowledge - special knowledge)
        1. Body is evil & the spirit is good: Therefore it makes no difference what do in body
              a. The whole religion was special rituals/passwords that let you in on their beliefs - knowledge
        2. But to the Jews: Knowledge & conduct absolutely bound together
              a. A person didn’t know something unless they did it
                     1. James 2:17-18 In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. But someone will say, "You have faith; I have deeds." Show me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by what I do.
                          a. Dead: Literally Useless/worthless  Imagine having Michael Jordan on your team - but dead!
B. Being a Christian is bound up in our actions – how we live
         1. Colossians 1:10 that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing Him, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God;
               a. Walk: Conduct/actions that are observable
        2. Our conduct is the evidence or proof of what’s inside of us
                 a. Matthew 7:17-18 Even so, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. 18 A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit.
        3. Word walk here: A series of individual steps - not just one big event
C. Our conduct should be “worthy” of the Lord 
         1. Measuring word: picture beam of scales when horizontal - equal weight
                a. “That which balances the scales”  equivalent
         2. Appropriate: in line w/measuring up to - fitting
                 a. Phil.1:27 Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel;
                      1. Appropriate: measuring up to who are/what believe
D. There should be outward evidence of inward reality
          1. Colossians 1:10 that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing Him, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God;
               a. Fruitful: The evidence of the kind of tree is the fruit it produces
        2. Good work: Beneficial or useful
               a. The focus is outward: What is good for God – and other people
                        1. Luke 10:27 He answered: "'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind' ; and, 'Love your neighbor as yourself.'"
         3. Q: What are some practical ways our lives can be fruitful – a blessing to God & others?


III. WORTHY ATTITUDES
A. It is possible to ruin our knowledge & works by our attitudes
         1. Children: Who do right – There! But have a pouting, snotty attitude
        2. Paul gives us some attitudes that please God
B. Patience in adversity
         1. Colossians 1:11 Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness;
               a. Patience: Remain under – bearing up; Hold your position in battle
        2. Continuing to do right – do what you know in spite of adversity/circumstances
                a. Ephesians 6:13 That is why you need to put on God’s full armor. Then on the day of evil you will be able to stand strong. And when you have finished the whole fight, you will still be standing.
C. Patience with people
        1. Dealing with people can be very frustrating
               a. We can become irritated with their shortcomings/Bitter at violations/Despairing at lack of change
        2. We can take wrong actions because of this
                 a. Numbers 20:10-11 And Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock; and he said to them, "Hear now, you rebels! Must we bring water for you out of this rock?" 11 Then Moses lifted his hand and struck the rock twice with his rod; and water came out abundantly, and the congregation and their animals drank.
         3. Colossians 1:11 Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness;
               a. Long suffering literally long-tempered: We restrain ourselves – our natural tendencies
D. Joyful thanks
         1. Colossians 1:11-12 Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness; 12 Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light:
               a. This is a choice of focus – deliberately choosing to focus on God
                      1. God is worthy to be praised/thanked – even in bad situations
                      2. God is able to change our situation – turn things around
E. These attitudes require power that is beyond us
         1. Colossians 1:11 Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness;
               a. God is able to supernaturally help those who want to please Him